with this getting back on family terms with the senator, Mr. Cohn, that he knew that
Mr. Cohn and Senator McCarthy would never believe that he had had nothing to do with the
incidents that followed the General's Wicker testimony.
He said that the matter had been taken out of his hands entirely and that it was a high
policy matter.
There was another portion of the conversation which concerned the fact that the subcommittee
had at that period of time been calling before it individual uniform members of the Communist
Party in executive and public session.
Mr. Adams had volunteered the appearance of the secretary of the Army before the subcommittee
to explain the Army's position in policy concerning communist and alleged communists before
the subcommittee.
I remember there was some more of us kidding and joking back and forth between here and
that point since he had volunteered the secretary's appearance.
Mr. Adams said that there was some, but he asked me how many more of the uniform communists
we would call before the subcommittee.
I told him that we knew of several.
He said that there are probably 200 of them in the Army that you could call before the
committee.
I asked me if there was any possibility of discontinuing calling any of more of these
uniform members of the party or alleged members of the party before the subcommittee until
after Mr. Stevens had testified.
I told him that I would see what I could do about that matter.
Mr. Carp of the room before we conclude your direct examination.
Now ask you if there is any additional statement that you would like to make concerning the
specifications filed with committee by Senator McCartney for the long your behalf and
on Mr. Coleman's behalf as well as his own.
Do you care to make any other statement?
No, sir.
I think we've covered it.
There's something I've overlooked why.
I'm sure you'll bring it out.
Now, let the car turn to examination of you more in the nature of cross-examination.
I should like to ask you and you capacity as executive director because they commit and
I believe you state as chief investigator.
Do you have supervision and control over the other investigators on the stand?
Yes, sir.
Yes, I'm the administrative of the child in person in charge of the investigator, yes.
Formerly, you had got to give her in the cross-examination while we were.
Yes, yes, yes.
Two other investigators.
Yes, I do and they also give suggestions to me.
And are they under your supervision and control?
Generally speaking, yes.
When did you first meet Mr. Shine?
I think that I first met him at 8950, delivered.
After I'd come with the committee, although I have a very recollection of having been
introduced to him somewhere in New York prior to that time.
Did you know after you came to the committee that Mr. Shine and Mr. Cohn were close personal
friends?
I assume they were in Francesco.
And I'll ask you to state, Mr. Carr, in a general sort of a way, the qualifications of
the other investigators on your committee.
In general, are they men of experience with the FBI or justice department?
All on you?
Yes, sir.
Most of them have gained knowledge through having worked their way up more or less with the
committee.
And they have become investigators, yes?
Do you have any investigators on your state under your supervision and control or otherwise?
Do you have not yet tried experience in FBI, justice department or who are not lawyers?
Yes, sir.
We have...
We don't.
The state is very misplaced.
Yes, sir.
We have two men who are in the category that I have explained who had started out with
the committee as staff assistance and have been assisting investigations and now conduct
investigations and stuff.
I mean, they've had long practical experience as members of the staff of the subcommittee.
Yes, and no.
They've had experience with the staff of some of them.
Well, Mr. Clark, rather get an exact answer on that question if we can.
Yes, so one has had what I would consider long experience and the other has had what
I would consider somewhat less experienced.
Now, what do you mean by somewhat less experienced?
I think the experience of about a year prior to just doing the investigator.
Now, what happens to Mr. Shine and his qualifications and his investigative experience?
I'll ask you to assign an immediate investigative test to Mr. Shine after you became executive
director.
No, sir, I did.
Well, did Mr. Shine undertake these investigative tests after you became executive director?
Well, sir, I better explain it this way.
When I came with the subcommittee, Mr. Shine was already a consultant with the committee.
Mr. Shine was doing this part time.
He was in New York.
When he was in Washington, he had some office space over in the other building and the HLC
building, I believe it is, and I had space here.
He was not often in Washington after I came with the committee.
I think that Mr. Shine's thoughts, suggestions, were channels to be coordinated with me through
Mr. Cohn.
I understand your question only then.
Mr. Shine was a part time consultant.
I guess so.
He spent only a small portion of his time in his class years consulting with this committee.
No, sir.
When I say part time, I mean that he didn't have both his full time too, that he also was
running a business.
He did spend a good deal of time with the committee on committee work.
Well, man, after you came with the committee, July 16th of last year, and until November
3, 1953, Mr. Shine spent the greatest portion of his time in New York running his business,
and he spent the greatest portion of his time in work on the committee.
I think it's your committee who is what all of the employees of the committee do.
Yes, sir, I'm familiar with the employees of the committee, the work that they do.
As I've explained, however, Mr. Shine was a consultant for the committee.
He did committee work in New York City.
He did some down here as I say.
After I came with the committee, most of his time was spent in New York.
A fraction of the time with Mr. Shine spent in Washington during that period, and as you
asked 16 until November 3.
I would say he spent a fair portion of his time with me.
I would be happy to say how many days I did see him here.
We had hearings of Washington in August and September, later in the fall.
He was here on other occasions.
He was not here every day as most of all the other investigators worked.
In a general sort of a way, what service did Mr. Shine render to the committee during
the period that he had just been in the heat?
Since I've come, I came in from the mayor's in front of New York City.
Mr. Shine, as a consultant, was working on the development of information which was
the assistance to the committee.
He had done a good deal of work prior to I came with the committee on the voice of America.
He maintained his contact with that investigation.
He had more or less projected a plan for continued investigation of the voice of America.
Some faces of the voice of America.
He contacted confidential informants to assist in the development of the government printing
office case.
He had a matter of fact that was knowledge that he learned through the voice of America
case that we first got on to the fact that there were a communist employed at the government
printing office.
He had an informant who was of great assistance in connection with the Fort Mama investigation.
He had another contact who furnished information concerning the General Electric Company in
Upper State New York, which is the area of his home.
Mr. Carwood, supervise the work of the Prime Minister.
Mr. Shine.
Well, sir, I don't know that it was supervised in any strict sense as you might say that
of the other investigators was.
The work of the subcommittee is an informal work until we get around to having hearings,
it's preparation for hearings.
As I say, Mr. Shine's activity and his work was reported and coordinated with me through
Mr. Colman.
Through Mr. Colman, did you say that?
Yes.
Was Mr. Shine responsible to you for the work that you did?
No, sir.
I wouldn't say so.
I always felt that Mr. Shine was responsible to the senator.
He was a consultant.
Mr. Colman was the chief counsel and I was the staff director.
I thought that we were all responsible to the senator and that we should at best, best
we could coordinate our work.
Mr. Carwood.
There's been an introduction evidence of monetary calls of November 7 between Senate and
the court and Secretary Stevens in which the Senate that stated in substance I believe
that on the subject of Shine Mr. Colman was completely unreasonable.
Now, Mr. Carwood, you've described to that state on the senator.
As far as I am concerned, no, he was never unreasonable.
Me?
Well, unreasonable to any degree.
I know, sir, not as far as I'm concerned.
And it's your testimony that Mr. Colman was not unreasonable on the subject of Shine.
I know, sir.
Now, you stated at least here the efforts of beating tactics on the part of Mr. Adams holding
up small favors or tibits in order to gain a termination of your investigation.
You recall your testimony after you got it.
Now, what effect would it have on Mr. Colman's disfating that Mr. Adams used?
Now, I was just myself interested to the instance of January 14.
Mr. Colman, the effect it had on Mr. Colman was that it annoyed him.
Mr. Colman felt very strongly that he, since he was responsible in some measure for bringing
Mr. Shine with the subcommittee that Mr. Shine should not be discriminated against by the
army.
He should not be used by the army.
An example of what Mr. Colman apparently had in mind was the fact that Mr. Adams brought
up this business of shipping and molding scenes before he actually finished his training.
Another example I might think of is this publicized statement by a general in the army that he
would give $100 to anyone who would poke Shine in the nose.
That type of thing.
Mr. Colman felt that Shine should not be discriminated against because he had worked
with the committee.
Well, was this essentially a subject with Mr. Colman?
What do you mean sensitive?
On the question of Shine.
I wouldn't.
Mr. Adams made it.
He was stated.
No, I wouldn't say it was a sensitive subject with Mr. Colman.
Mr. Adams stated him.
Mr. Colman for a long time took a good deal of baiting.
Once in a while, it would get under his skin as it would anyone else.
I want to refer you to Mr. Adams' testimony on page 2606 of the record that relates to the
conversation of January 14th.
The evidence of Mr. Colman.
And I'll read from Mr. Adams' testimony.
Mr. Adams, yes sir, that is right.
I asked him what would happen if Shine got overseas duty.
He responded with bigger and more.
Colman, Steven is through a sectarian army.
I said, both O'Roy and something to this effect.
O'Roy, don't say that.
Come on, really, what is going to happen if Shine gets overseas duty.
He responded with even more force.
Colman, we will wreck the army.
Now, is the statement which I have guessed right?
Attributable to Mr. Colman.
Correct.
No sir, I was there in the room after Mr. Adams had mentioned this chipping of Shine overseas.
Mr. Colman did not make the statement.
There is no question, but what that question was brought up.
Mr. Adams asked Mr. Colman what would happen if Shine was then overseas.
I don't recall him saying what would happen if Mr. Shine was then overseas.
I recall he said something about how cooperated with you for us a little bit.
Now, what would you like if I sent Adams overseas?
That's a front-to-channel scene.
And it is your testimony that Mr. Colman did not make any response.
In substance, Colman, we will wreck the army.
That's correct.
I'll read further from Mr. Adams' testimony on page 2607.
Then he said, Colman, the first thing we are going to do is get General Ryan for the way he has treated Dave at Fort Dix.
Dave gets through at Fort Dix tomorrow or this week.
And as soon as he is gone, we are going to get General Ryan for the obscene way in which he has committed shine to be treated up there.
He said, Colman, we are not going to do it ourselves.
We have another committee of the Congress interested in it.
Then he said, I wouldn't put it past you to do this.
We will start investigation.
We have enough stuff on the army to keep investigations going indefinitely.
And if anything, like such and such double-cross occurs, that is what we will do.
Did you follow me as I read, Mr. Car?
Yes, pretty much.
Did Mr. Colman make any such statement or the substance?
No, he did not.
No, sir, he did not.
I am sure that I would have recalled it.
I said anything concerning General Ryan.
My contact with General Ryan has been most pleasant.
I thought he was a bind gentleman.
I am sure he would have recalled it.
Are you within hearing distance of Mr. Colman and Mr. Adams during the entire time of their conversation on this particular case?
Yes, I was, except for the very beginning of the conversation on the port name, yes.
But after the search, he took a shine, was in a pose, you say, by Mr. Adams?
Yes.
You work within hearing distance of each gentleman as they converge.
Yes, I was in a room.
And it's your testimony that no such statement as I just read, which is attributable to Mr. Colman by Mr. Adams, was made by Mr. Colman.
Yes, sir, that's my testimony.
And this statement concerning what we are going to do about General Ryan for the way he has treated China and Fort Dix is just the pigment of the imagination of Mr. Adams.
Well, I don't know what it is.
I know that this didn't happen.
I know that if it had happened, I would have gotten into the conversation at that point.
Well, what was stated by Mr. Colman in response to the inquiry of Mr. Adams concerning the possibility of China's shipment overseas?
Well, at that point, Mr. Cron said that he could see no reason for China being sent overseas, that he was disgusted with Mr. Adams for tying that in with the statement of cooperation.
And with the statement about a request for ending the hearing, I recall something about he has not had enough training to go overseas.
Did Mr. Colman or let occasion or any other occasion make the statement quote Steven is true as Secretary of the Army?
No, sir, nothing like that.
No, I know.
And if he made any such statement on January 14, you don't know anything about it.
That's correct.
Now, Mr. Car shifting back to an earlier date.
Now, last few if you recall, Mr. Adams testimony that around the time that Dave Shine was inducted into the Army November 3,
Adams had a conversation with Mr. Colman in which he will present.
Page 2533 of the record.
That that conversation occurred in room 101 in the Senate Office building.
At which time in substance, Mr. Adams stated to Mr. Colman that the National Empress will preclude
Mr. Adams doing anything in a preference your way for Mr. Shine.
Did you recall the substance of that testimony?
No, I'm just looking at all the evidence.
I will read from the record, Mr. Car page 2533.
Mr. Adams, yes sir, I pointed out to him that I was 15 years here seeing him.
And although I did not at all presume to be as good a lawyer as he was, and I am sure that I am not, that I did feel that there was one field in which I could give him some friendly advice if he would take him.
I pointed out to him that the National Empress required that Shine be treated just like every other soldier.
Mr. Jenkins, what was his reply to that, Mr. Adams if you have finished?
Mr. Adams, it was the wrong clause to use because he excluded at that and said if the National Empress was the thing with...
He would give us a little bit.
The outline how they would hold a series of hearings and point it out to us.
He would give us a little national interest if that was what we were interested in.
That was the substance. This was the substance.
Shine which caused the regeneration of an otherwise friendly relationship over the months.
Now did you call him, Mr. Car?
Yes, sir.
Do you recall any such conversation between Mr. Adams and Mr. Colme?
Well, that was the adoption of Shine was discussed.
No, sir.
You were not present if any such conversation did impact the court.
Yes, sir. I don't recall any such conversation.
Now let's go to December 17th.
And I'll ask you if on the morning of December 17th, and that was preceding this automobile ride,
Senate to MacArthur, who had remained abused, or was critical of you with reference to the intervention of the committee on behalf of Shine at Fort Dicks.
No, sir. Did not.
Did he discuss that matter with you?
Not that time, nothing.
Now, as you too, refresh your memory if you can.
By turning to Mr. Adams' testimony, page 2586 of the record, and I'll read it.
Mr. Car was in the room, and this is Thursday, December 17th.
When we walked into the room, he began to speak to Mr. Car about the subject.
And he began to criticize Mr. Car about the matter that he had spoken to me about, and to clarify it,
I'll read the preceding paragraph on page 2585.
Senator McCartney stated to me that the purpose of his call for night before was that he had just learned that it deduced on the previous day of the amount of interference with the officials at Fort Dicks, which is set at a conference.
And that he wished to tell me that as I've been and now it was through, it is ceased.
And that he was not going to permit it anymore.
I told him I was gratified to get that information, but it would be absolutely of no value to me unless he stated it to come in front of me.
Now, do you recall that testimony, Mr. Car?
Yes, sir.
And it is your testimony now under oath that Senator McCartney did not speak to you on the morning of December 17th, with reference to any intervention on behalf of Chine,
by members of the committee.
That's correct.
And you deny that any such referment is test-fired to by Mr. Adam Stiff, please?
No, I, and the Senator McCartney, who's recommended me, but not on that subject.
He did not referment you concerning Chine.
Right.
Did he discuss with you on that morning the subject of Chine?
No, no, his activities at Fort Dicks.
Not on that morning, sir.
Thank you.